index.rst, before:

.. Read the Docs Template documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Aug 26 14:19:49 2014.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

*************
Loop Antennas
*************

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :numbered:

   content/introduction
   content/fundamentals
   content/small-loops
   content/em-modeling
   content/circuit-modeling
   content/loaded-loops
   content/solenoid-loops
   content/applications
   content/zreferences

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Special Chapters
   :name: sec-special
	
   content/eddy-currents

.. toctree::
   :caption: Appendix
   :name: sec-appendix
   :maxdepth: 1
	
   content/dictionary

In the case of loop antennas, the dipole consists of a usually circular or rectangular current loop which acts like a coil and functions in response to the magnetic component of the electromagnetic field :cite:`rohner:2006`.

A small loop (circular or square) is equivalent to an infinitesimal magnetic dipole whose axis is perpendicular to the plane of the loop. That is, the fields radiated by an electrically small circular or square loop are of the same mathematical form as those radiated by an infinitesimal magnetic dipole :cite:`balanis:2005`. 


.. Indices and tables
.. ==================

.. * :ref:`genindex`
.. * :ref:`modindex`
.. * :ref:`search`

Commit message:

- loaded-loops seperated - updated index - added papers to magnetic cores

index.rst, after:

.. Read the Docs Template documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Aug 26 14:19:49 2014.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

*************
Loop Antennas
*************

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   content/introduction
   content/fundamentals
   content/small-loops
   content/em-modeling
   content/circuit-modeling
   loaded-loops/index
   content/solenoid-loops
   content/applications
   content/zreferences

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Special Chapters
   :name: sec-special
	
   content/eddy-currents

.. toctree::
   :caption: Appendix
   :name: sec-appendix
   :maxdepth: 1
	
   content/dictionary

.. note:: 

    This book is a kind of Loop Antennas book by Prof. Serkan Aksoy. For further information, please visit the page of the book: |Loop_Antennas|.

.. |Loop_Antennas| raw:: html

   <a href="http://anibal.gyte.edu.tr/dosya/102/~saksoy/Loop%20Antennas/Loop%20Antennas.htm" target="_blank">Loop Antennas</a>

.. Indices and tables
.. ==================

.. * :ref:`genindex`
.. * :ref:`modindex`
.. * :ref:`search`
