History
=======

Fratianni investigated the effect of iron cores on the receiving efficiency of VLF loop antennas, in air and underwater [Fratianni, 1950].

Rumsey and Weeks investigated electrically small, ferrite loaded loop antennas. Approximate formulas have been developed for the impedance, efficiency, and Q of electrically small, ferrite-loaded loop antennas. The formulas are based on an assumed knowledge of these parameters for the antenna without ferrite loading. Radiation resistance formulation is also given [Rumsey and Weeks, 1956]. 

A general discussion relating to the application of small loop antennas with air and ferrite cores k given. A general procedure for simplified testing of ferrite-loaded magnetic type small antennas is outlined in which radiofrequency radiation performance is expressed in tern of quantities easily measured at audio frequencies. Only a single measurement is needed to characterize the elementary-dipole type ferrite-loaded antenna. Finally, a number of measurement results are given which apply to the usual rod-type ferrite-loaded loop antenna: measurement parameters cover a broad range of core lengths and diameters. It is found that typical ferrite-loaded loops have little electrical advantage over air loops although the packaging advantage of ferrite loops may be significant [Stewart, 1958].

Islam investigated a theoretical treatment of low-frequency loop antennas with permeable cores. Solution for retarded vector potential due to a circular loop of current and perturbed by the presence of a permeable infinitely-long cylinder is derived from Maxwell's equations. It has been shown that the resultant potential consists of two parts: one part is due to the loop only; and the other part is due to the presence of the permeable core. The method as to how similar procedure could be used to obtain solution for a prolate spheroidal core has been indicated [Islam, 1963].

Islam then investigated Mathematical Analysis on the Effect of a Prolate Spheroidal Core in a Magnetic Dipole Field. The magnetic vector potential has been obtained for the case of a circular loop of current surrounding a material core of a prolate spheroidal shape, by solving Maxwell's equations and suitable boundary conditions. It is shown that this vector potential consists of two parts; the first part is that due to the loop alone, the second part being due to the presence of the core [Islam, 1963].

Devore and Bohley investigated an analytical model of a class of electrically small multiturn loop antennas has been formulated and compared with experimental measurements over a frequency range of 3 to 86 MHz. Both air core and magnetically loaded cases were examined. The analytical model described in this paper should prove an effective design aid for a volumetrically constrained antenna of the class [Devore and Bohley, 1977].

Burton et. al. investigated the electromagnetic field of an electrically small loop antenna with a cylindrical core. The infinitely long cylinder may be conducting or insulating. With the help of the principle of similitude, measurements made with a small loop at a high frequency with cylinders of water with widely different conductivities are applied to a very large loop around a mountain at a very low frequency. An approximate equivalent circuit for the loop with a core is described and tested [Burton et. al., 1983].

The goal of this research is to develop and validate a low-frequency modeling code for high-moment transmitter rod antennas to aid in the design of future low-frequency TX antennas with high magnetic moments. modeling code can predict the TX antenna’s gain, maximum magnetic moment, saturation current, series inductance, and core series loss resistance, provided the user enters the corresponding complex permeability for the desired core magnetic flux density [Jordan et. al., 2009].